
Alberta, Canada
Opportunity Alberta Business in Alberta 
Search
Close
Main Menu
 Opportunity Alberta /Programs and Forms/Live Permanently /Alberta Immigrant Nominee Program 
Alberta Immigrant Nominee Program 
The Alberta Immigrant Nominee Program (AINP) is an economic immigration program operated by the Government of Alberta with the Government of Canada’s department of Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC). It supports Alberta’s economic growth by attracting and retaining work-ready people to the province.
How does it work?
Individuals nominated by the Government of Alberta, together with their spouse/common-law partner and dependent children, can apply for permanent residence through IRCC as a provincial nominee. IRCC makes final decisions on all permanent resident applications.
The AINP offers options for both skilled and semi-skilled workers. You may be able to apply on your own, or with your employer. Review the streams and categories below and choose the best option for you. Also review who is not eligible.
AINP nominations will not be issued for the purpose of obtaining temporary work permit extensions. See the FAQ section for more information.
Reminder:
        You must maintain a valid work permit throughout the AINP application and assessment process. Only applicants under the Strategic Recruitment Stream Engineering Occupations Category are exempt from this requirement. At the time of assessment, you must provide the AINP with a valid work permit or implied status based on either:
a positive Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA) or 
a LMIA exemption as determined by IRCC 
Some LMIA exemptions from IRCC are not eligible under the AINP. The AINP will not consider the following exemptions:
international students studying in Canada, including students doing co-op work placements or internships as part of their study program 
people doing charitable or religious work 
people who need to support themselves while they are in Canada, such as those waiting on a refugee claim 
In addition, you must meet all criteria for the category under which you applied. See the FAQ section for more information.
Application requirements differ depending on the stream and category. Read more about each available stream and category below.
AINP Streams and Categories Accepting Applications
Strategic Recruitment Stream
Apply on your own (without an employer) under one of three different category options:
Compulsory and Optional Trades Category
You may qualify if you are a temporary foreign worker and have a valid trade certificate in a compulsory or optional trade in Alberta issued or recognized by Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training (AIT). Learn more: Compulsory and Optional Trades Category
Engineering Occupations Category
You may qualify if you are a temporary foreign worker and have Alberta work experience in an eligible engineering occupation. Learn more: Engineering Occupations Category
Post-Graduate Worker Category
You may qualify, if you have a Post-Graduation Work Permit, are currently working in Alberta, and have graduated from a recognized post-secondary institution in Alberta. Changes were made to this category on September 27, 2013. Learn more: Post-Graduate Worker Category
Employer-Driven Stream
Apply with your employer under one of three different category options:
Skilled Worker Category
You may qualify, if you have been offered a permanent and full-time job by an Alberta employer in an eligible skilled occupation. Learn more: Skilled Worker Category
International Graduate Category
You may qualify if you recently graduated from a recognized post-secondary institution in Canada, have a Post-Graduation Work Permit, and have been offered a permanent and full-time job by an Alberta employer in an eligible occupation. Learn more: International Graduate Category
Semi-Skilled Worker Category
You may qualify for nomination if you have been offered a permanent and full-time job by an Alberta employer in an eligible semi-skilled occupation, and you are a temporary foreign worker.
Only select key industries and occupations are eligible in this category, and all candidates must meet minimum language standards. Learn more: Semi-Skilled Worker Category
Self-Employed Farmer Stream
You may qualify if you have the financial resources and farm management experience to purchase and establish a farm in Alberta. Learn more: Self-Employed Farmer Stream
Who is not eligible? 
The following are not eligible to apply to the AINP:
Clergy, Elementary and Secondary School Teachers, Professional Athletes and Dental Laboratory Bench Workers 
Refugee claimants, or individuals involved in a federal appeal or removal process. It is not the mandate of the AINP to intervene in the federal refugee claim, appeal or removal process. 
Live-in Caregivers currently living in Canada 
Temporary Foreign Workers working and residing in a province other than Alberta 
International students studying in Canada, including students doing co-op work placements or internships as part of their study program. 
Other restrictions on eligibility may also apply for each AINP stream/category; see AINP stream pages and category criteria pages for more information.
Note: Review AINP terms and conditions before applying.
Get information
Subscribe for information and resources relevant to you, delivered to your inbox.
Subscribe now »
Frequently Asked Questions
Find answers to your immigration-related questions using our searchable FAQ tool.
Find answers »
Date Updated: Mon, 08 May 2017 04:27:15
                RDP: 284
Main Menu
Choose AlbertaMove to AlbertaWork in AlbertaLive in AlbertaAfter You ArrivePrograms and FormsHelp for Employers
Programs and Forms 
Come TemporarilyLive Permanently
Alberta Immigrant Nominee Program
Application FormsEmployer-Driven StreamStrategic Recruitment StreamSelf-Employed Farmer StreamAINP Processing and Inventory Language Test CentresAfter You Are NominatedAINP NewsExpired AINP Streams, Categories and InitiativesHelpful Resources
Express EntryBusiness ImmigrationFamily SponsorshipCaregiver ProgramRefugeeOther Immigration Pathways
Immigration Help CentreHelpful Resources
AlbertaCanada.com
Privacy StatementUsing this siteSearchAccessibilityContact Us
 © 2008-2017 Government of Alberta  |  Copyright and Disclaimer
