
{~LoginMacro~}
About WelcomeBC
Menu
About WelcomeBC
Menu
Close
Choose B.C.
Why Choose British Columbia, Canada
Explore British Columbia
Success Stories
Immigrate to B.C.
BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP)
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
BC PNP - Express Entry BC
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Other Immigration Options and Information
Start Your Life in B.C.
First Few Days
Daily Life
Services and Support
Newcomers' Guides
Newcomers' Videos
Work or Study in B.C.
Work in B.C.
Job Profiles for Immigrants
Study in B.C.
Extend Your Stay in B.C.
Employer Resources
BC Provincial Nominee Program—Employers
Federal Immigration Programs
Hire Internationally Trained Workers
Hire Temporary Foreign Workers
Resources For
Potential Immigrants
International Students
Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Communities & Service Providers
Regulators
In Your Language
About WelcomeBC
Home
Immigrate to B.C.
BC PNP - Express Entry BC
EEBC — Healthcare Professional
Back 
EEBC — Healthcare Professional
British Columbia needs more health care professionals. The Express Entry BC (EEBC) – Healthcare Professional category of the BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) helps physicians, specialists, nurses and allied health professionals put your valuable skills to work in the province and get permanent residence.
Express Entry BC connects to Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada's (IRCC) Express Entry system to speed up the permanent residence process.
Find opportunities in B.C.
Health Match BC is a free health recruitment and placement service. It can help you find a job in your field with one of B.C.’s health authorities. Health Match BC staff can also answer your questions about the BC PNP and assist you with your application.
Find a health care job through Health Match BC.
Am I eligible?
To qualify for this category, you must:
have received an Express Entry Profile Number and a Job Seeker Validation Code from the IRCC Express Entry system. This shows you meet the minimum criteria for one of IRCC’s Express Entry programs:

	
Federal Skilled Worker Program
Federal Skilled Trades Program
Canadian Experience Class 
have the support of, or a full-time, indeterminate job offer (a permanent job, or one with no set end date) from a public health authority as a:
	
physician
specialist
registered nurse
registered psychiatric nurse
nurse practitioner   
allied health professional such as a:
		
diagnostic medical sonographer
clinical pharmacist
medical laboratory technologist
medical radiation technologist
occupational therapist
physiotherapist
if you are a midwife, have a letter of confirmation from an established practice group in B.C.  
qualify to work in your occupation in B.C.
have at least two (2) years of directly related work experience
show you can support yourself and your dependents
have, or be eligible for, legal immigration status in Canada
meet minimum language requirements
have a wage offer in line with B.C. wage rates for the occupation
Is my employer eligible?
Your employer must be willing to support your application. They must meet the eligibility criteria and fulfill certain responsibilities during the application process. View the employer requirements.
How does it work?
To start the process, please create a profile with our online application system, BCPNP Online. As a Healthcare Professional applicant, you can submit an Express Entry BC application directly via BCPNP Online.
See how to register and apply.
Get started
For complete, up-to-date program information and requirements, please review the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Program Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Note: This website provides a high-level overview of the program only. Please refer to the program guide for the most current and complete information. Check back often to ensure you have the latest version.
Need help applying online?
Please refer to the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Technical Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Related Topics
Skills Imm - Healthcare Professional
            

    BCPNP Online
    

    Guides and forms
    
Go back to the top of the page.
Accessibility
Browsers
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Us
Visit WorkBC
Increase Font Size
A
A
A
View in other languages
 
 

                            Copyright © 2017 Province of British Columbia. All rights reserved.
                        
 
 
