
{~LoginMacro~}
About WelcomeBC
Menu
About WelcomeBC
Menu
Close
Choose B.C.
Why Choose British Columbia, Canada
Explore British Columbia
Success Stories
Immigrate to B.C.
BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP)
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
BC PNP - Express Entry BC
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Other Immigration Options and Information
Start Your Life in B.C.
First Few Days
Daily Life
Services and Support
Newcomers' Guides
Newcomers' Videos
Work or Study in B.C.
Work in B.C.
Job Profiles for Immigrants
Study in B.C.
Extend Your Stay in B.C.
Employer Resources
BC Provincial Nominee Program—Employers
Federal Immigration Programs
Hire Internationally Trained Workers
Hire Temporary Foreign Workers
Resources For
Potential Immigrants
International Students
Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Communities & Service Providers
Regulators
In Your Language
About WelcomeBC
Home
Immigrate to B.C.
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
Skilled Worker
Back 
Skilled Worker
British Columbia’s growing economy requires skilled workers in high-demand occupations. The Skills Immigration (SI) – Skilled Worker category of the BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) is a way for workers in a professional, management, technical, trade or other skilled occupation to gain permanent residence in B.C.
To qualify, you must first accept a valid job offer from a B.C. employer. You also need relevant training and experience.
Want a faster way to apply for permanent residency? See if you qualify for Express Entry BC — Skilled Worker.
Am I eligible?
To qualify for this category, you must:

have accepted a full-time, indeterminate job offer (a permanent job, or one with no set end date) from a B.C. employer. The job must be in a National Occupational Classification (NOC) skilled occupation (skill level 0, A or B).
be qualified to perform the duties of the job
have at least two (2) years of directly related work experience
show you can support yourself and your dependents
have, or be eligible for, legal immigration status in Canada
for NOC skill level B occupations, meet minimum language requirements
have a wage offer in line with B.C. wage rates for the occupation
Is my employer eligible?
Your employer must be willing to support your application. They must meet the eligibility criteria and fulfill certain responsibilities during the application process. View the employer requirements.
How does it work?
To start the process, please create a profile with our online application and registration system, BCPNP Online. After submitting your registration, you will receive a score based on your skills and job. Periodically, we invite people with the highest scores to apply through BCPNP Online.
See how to register and apply.
Get started
For complete, up-to-date program information and requirements, please review the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Program Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Note: This website provides a high-level overview of the program only. Please refer to the program guide for the most current and complete information. Check back often to ensure you have the latest version.
Need help registering and applying online?
Please refer to the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Technical Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Related Topics
EEBC - Skilled Worker
            
BC PNP Tech Pilot
            

    BCPNP Online
    

    Guides and forms
    
Go back to the top of the page.
Accessibility
Browsers
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Us
Visit WorkBC
Increase Font Size
A
A
A
View in other languages
 
 

                            Copyright © 2017 Province of British Columbia. All rights reserved.
                        
 
 
