
{~LoginMacro~}
About WelcomeBC
Menu
About WelcomeBC
Menu
Close
Choose B.C.
Why Choose British Columbia, Canada
Explore British Columbia
Success Stories
Immigrate to B.C.
BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP)
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
BC PNP - Express Entry BC
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Other Immigration Options and Information
Start Your Life in B.C.
First Few Days
Daily Life
Services and Support
Newcomers' Guides
Newcomers' Videos
Work or Study in B.C.
Work in B.C.
Job Profiles for Immigrants
Study in B.C.
Extend Your Stay in B.C.
Employer Resources
BC Provincial Nominee Program—Employers
Federal Immigration Programs
Hire Internationally Trained Workers
Hire Temporary Foreign Workers
Resources For
Potential Immigrants
International Students
Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Communities & Service Providers
Regulators
In Your Language
About WelcomeBC
Home
Immigrate to B.C.
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
International Post-Graduate
Back 
International Post-Graduate
Do you have a graduate degree in the sciences from an eligible B.C. institution? Consider advancing your career in B.C.’s growing technology, health care, and applied sciences sectors.
The Skills Immigration (SI) – International Post-Graduate category of the BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) can help you gain permanent residence in B.C. You don’t need a job offer to apply.
Want a faster way to apply for permanent residency? See if you qualify for Express Entry BC — International Post-Graduate.
Which graduate degrees are valid?
You must have graduated in the last three years with a master's or doctorate (PhD) degree in the natural, applied or health sciences:
agriculture
biological and biomedical sciences
computer and information sciences and support services
engineering
engineering technology
health professions and related clinical sciences
mathematics and statistics
natural resources conservation and research
physical sciences
Please see the BC PNP IPG & EEBC IPG Eligible Programs of Study Document (PDF, 1MB) for a complete listing of eligible programs of study.
Am I eligible?
To qualify for this category, you must:
have, or be eligible for, legal immigration status in Canada
have completed a valid graduate program of study at an eligible post-secondary institution in B.C. in the last three years.
show your intent and ability to live in B.C.
How does it work?
To start the process, please create a profile with our online application system, BCPNP Online. As an International Post-Graduate applicant, you can apply directly via BCPNP Online.
See how to register and apply.
Get started
For complete, up-to-date program information and requirements, please review the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Program Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Note: This website provides a high-level overview of the program only. Please refer to the program guide for the most current and complete information. Check back often to ensure you have the latest version.
Need help applying online?
Please refer to the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Technical Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Related Topics
EEBC - International Post-Graduate
            
BC PNP Tech Pilot
            

    BCPNP Online
    

    Guides and forms
    
Go back to the top of the page.
Accessibility
Browsers
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Us
Visit WorkBC
Increase Font Size
A
A
A
View in other languages
 
 

                            Copyright © 2017 Province of British Columbia. All rights reserved.
                        
 
 
