
{~LoginMacro~}
About WelcomeBC
Menu
About WelcomeBC
Menu
Close
Choose B.C.
Why Choose British Columbia, Canada
Explore British Columbia
Success Stories
Immigrate to B.C.
BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP)
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
BC PNP - Express Entry BC
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Other Immigration Options and Information
Start Your Life in B.C.
First Few Days
Daily Life
Services and Support
Newcomers' Guides
Newcomers' Videos
Work or Study in B.C.
Work in B.C.
Job Profiles for Immigrants
Study in B.C.
Extend Your Stay in B.C.
Employer Resources
BC Provincial Nominee Program—Employers
Federal Immigration Programs
Hire Internationally Trained Workers
Hire Temporary Foreign Workers
Resources For
Potential Immigrants
International Students
Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Communities & Service Providers
Regulators
In Your Language
About WelcomeBC
Home
Immigrate to B.C.
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
Entry Level and Semi-Skilled
Back 
Entry Level and Semi-Skilled
The Skills Immigration (SI) – Entry Level and Semi-Skilled category of the BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) is a way for workers in a valid tourism/hospitality, long-haul trucking or food processing occupation to gain permanent residence in B.C.
To qualify, you must first accept a valid job offer from a B.C. employer. Please note that this category is not eligible under the Express Entry BC stream.
Am I eligible?
To qualify for this category, you must:
have accepted a full-time, indeterminate job offer (a permanent job, or one with no set end date) from a B.C. employer in a specific occupation in tourism/hospitality, long-haul trucking, or the food processing industry. For the Northeast Development Region of B.C., you may apply in any National Occupational Classification occupation (skill level C or D).
have been working full-time for your employer for a minimum of nine consecutive months before applying
meet minimum language and education requirements
qualify to do the job offered to you
show you can support yourself and your dependents
have legal immigration status in Canada
be earning a wage in line with B.C. wage rates for the occupation
Is my employer eligible?
Your employer must be willing to support your application. They must meet the eligibility criteria and fulfill certain responsibilities during the application process. View the employer requirements. 
How does it work?
To start the process, please create a profile with our online application and registration system, BCPNP Online. After submitting your registration, you will receive a score based on your skills and job. Periodically, we invite people with the highest scores to apply through BCPNP Online.
See how to register and apply.
Get started
For complete, up-to-date program information and requirements, please review the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Program Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Note: This website provides a high-level overview of the program only. Please refer to the program guide for the most current and complete information. Check back often to ensure you have the latest version.
Need help registering and applying online?
Please refer to the BC PNP Skills Immigration and Express Entry BC Technical Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Related Topics
Skills Immigration - Skilled Worker
            

    BCPNP Online
    

    Guides and forms
    
Go back to the top of the page.
Accessibility
Browsers
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Us
Visit WorkBC
Increase Font Size
A
A
A
View in other languages
 
 

                            Copyright © 2017 Province of British Columbia. All rights reserved.
                        
 
 
