
{~LoginMacro~}
About WelcomeBC
Menu
About WelcomeBC
Menu
Close
Choose B.C.
Why Choose British Columbia, Canada
Explore British Columbia
Success Stories
Immigrate to B.C.
BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP)
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
BC PNP - Express Entry BC
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Other Immigration Options and Information
Start Your Life in B.C.
First Few Days
Daily Life
Services and Support
Newcomers' Guides
Newcomers' Videos
Work or Study in B.C.
Work in B.C.
Job Profiles for Immigrants
Study in B.C.
Extend Your Stay in B.C.
Employer Resources
BC Provincial Nominee Program—Employers
Federal Immigration Programs
Hire Internationally Trained Workers
Hire Temporary Foreign Workers
Resources For
Potential Immigrants
International Students
Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Communities & Service Providers
Regulators
In Your Language
About WelcomeBC
Home
Immigrate to B.C.
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Entrepreneur Immigration - Program Requirements
Back 
Entrepreneur Immigration - Program Requirements
Service Notice: BCPNP Online Payment System
We are currently experiencing technical issues with the BCPNP Online registration and application system. Please click here for more information.
 
Service Outage Notice: BC PNP Online and WelcomeBC website 
Both the BCPNP Online application system and the WelcomeBC website will be unavailable the morning of Wednesday, October 11th. Please click here for more information.

If you want to immigrate to B.C. and are ready to invest in and actively manage a valid business here, you may qualify for our Entrepreneur Immigration stream. Here is an overview of the requirements.
Personal requirements
To qualify, you must:
have a personal net worth of at least CAD$600,000
demonstrate business and/or management experience
have, or be eligible for, legal immigration status in Canada
You must also have been lawfully admitted in the country where you currently reside.
Please review our Entrepreneur Immigration Program Guide to see the complete personal requirements.
Business, job and investment requirements
To qualify you must:
establish an eligible new business or purchase and improve an existing business
make an eligible personal investment of at least CAD$200,000 in the business
create at least one new full-time job for a Canadian citizen or permanent resident in the business
Please review our Entrepreneur Immigration Program Guide to see the complete business and investment requirements, including business eligibility and job requirements.
Registration and application fees
All applicants must pay the following fees:
$300 registration fee
$3,500 application fee
$1,000 for each key staff application  
How does it work?
The first step is to research B.C.’s economy and regions to find a business opportunity. The WorkBC website provides comprehensive information and data about B.C.’s labour market and industries. When you have a business idea, please create a profile and a registration with our online application and registration system, BCPNP Online. Please include a business concept.
If you are eligible, you will receive a score based on your registration information. We will also put you into a qualified pool. Periodically, we invite people with the highest scores to apply through BCPNP Online.
See how to register and apply. Registration requires a non-refundable $300 fee.
Get started
For complete, up-to-date program information and requirements, please review the BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration Program Guide (PDF, 1MB).
Note: This website provides a high-level overview of the program only. Please refer to the program guide for the most current and complete information. Check back often to ensure you have the latest version.
Related Topics
B.C.'s Labour Market & Industry
            

    BCPNP Online
    

    Guides and forms
    
Go back to the top of the page.
Accessibility
Browsers
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Us
Visit WorkBC
Increase Font Size
A
A
A
View in other languages
 
 

                            Copyright © 2017 Province of British Columbia. All rights reserved.
                        
 
 
