
{~LoginMacro~}
About WelcomeBC
Menu
About WelcomeBC
Menu
Close
Choose B.C.
Why Choose British Columbia, Canada
Explore British Columbia
Success Stories
Immigrate to B.C.
BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP)
BC PNP - Skills Immigration
BC PNP - Express Entry BC
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Other Immigration Options and Information
Start Your Life in B.C.
First Few Days
Daily Life
Services and Support
Newcomers' Guides
Newcomers' Videos
Work or Study in B.C.
Work in B.C.
Job Profiles for Immigrants
Study in B.C.
Extend Your Stay in B.C.
Employer Resources
BC Provincial Nominee Program—Employers
Federal Immigration Programs
Hire Internationally Trained Workers
Hire Temporary Foreign Workers
Resources For
Potential Immigrants
International Students
Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Communities & Service Providers
Regulators
In Your Language
About WelcomeBC
Home
Immigrate to B.C.
BC PNP - Entrepreneur Immigration
Strategic Projects
Back 
Strategic Projects
Do you want to establish a business operation in B.C.? The Strategic Projects category of the BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) Entrepreneur Immigration stream enables foreign-controlled companies to set up a branch office or other operating facility in B.C.
The company can propose up to five key staff members who intend to settle in B.C. and who will actively manage the operation in B.C.

Please review our Entrepreneur Immigration Program Guide to see the complete requirements.
Is my company eligible?
To qualify, the company must:
be in excellent financial health; provide evidence of good business practices and successful business operations outside Canada that are relevant to the proposed B.C. business.
identify investment opportunities in B.C. based on commercial decisions and credible foundations.
demonstrate that the proposed key employees are qualified senior employees who are essential to establishing and operating the business
Are the key staff members eligible?
The company’s key staff members must have, or be eligible for, immigration status in Canada. We will not accept applications of key staff members who:
are prohibited from entering Canada
have not been lawfully admitted in the country of current residence
are in Canada and are out of status
	
an individual whose status has expired, and they cannot demonstrate they have applied for restoration of status within the 90-day eligibility period, will be considered out of status
are working in Canada without authorization
have an unresolved refugee claim in Canada
are under a removal order in or outside Canada 
What are the requirements?
The company will be required to:
make a minimum equity investment of at least $500,000 to establish or purchase and expand an eligible business in B.C.
create at least three new jobs for Canadian citizens or permanent residents for each foreign key staff member proposed (to a maximum of five key staff)
establish or purchase and expand a company in B.C. 
What is the application process?
Step 1: Exploratory visit
We encourage senior executives representing the company to visit B.C. to explore and learn more about opportunities and the local business environment.
Step 2: Discuss your proposal
To apply for the Strategic Projects category, the company must first contact our office to obtain information about the program and discuss the proposal. They must also register the company’s interest to apply. As part of the registration, the company should provide information including:
company information (e.g. the year established, a description of business activities, sales revenue, number of employees, etc.)
a description of the business it intends to establish or purchase and expand in B.C.
how the proposed business is related to the company’s core business
a due diligence and commercial viabilities study
a detailed investment rationale and breakdown
estimated annual revenue
roles and responsibilities of each key staff member in the parent company and the B.C. business
types of jobs it will create in B.C.
other information as required
Step 3: Apply
There is a registration processing fee of $300. If we determine that the company qualifies, we will invite the company to submit a full application. The company and its key staff must submit all the required forms and supporting documentation. There is an corporate application processing fee of $3,500, plus a $1,000 application processing fee for each key staff member.
We will screen the application for completeness. We may ask the company clarifying questions and request additional documentation.
As part of the application assessment process, we will invite all key staff members to attend an in-person interview at the BC PNP offices in Vancouver.
What happens after approval?
If the application is approved, the company’s designated signing authority signs a Performance Agreement with B.C. We will issue a work permit support letter to each key staff member so they can apply for a two-year work permit from Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC).
When the key staff members arrive in B.C. with a valid work permit, they must submit an arrival report form to the BC PNP.
The company must submit a final report to the BC PNP to demonstrate how the company has met the terms and conditions of the Performance Agreement. We will review the report, and may conduct site visits or interviews to verify information. If the BC PNP determines that the company has met the terms and conditions of the Performance Agreement, the key staff members will be nominated for permanent residency.
The key staff members must apply to IRCC for a permanent resident visa within 180 days (approximately six months) from the date of nomination.
Note: This website provides a high-level overview of the program only. Please refer to the program guide for the most current and complete information. Check back often to ensure you have the latest version.
Related Topics
Trade and Invest BC
            
B.C.'s Labour Market & Industry
            
Contact the BC PNP
            

    Guides and forms
    
Go back to the top of the page.
Accessibility
Browsers
Disclaimer
Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Us
Visit WorkBC
Increase Font Size
A
A
A
View in other languages
 
 

                            Copyright © 2017 Province of British Columbia. All rights reserved.
                        
 
 
