
Skip to main content
Skip to "About this site"
Skip to section menu
Language selection
Français
 Government of Canada
Search and menus
Search and menus
Search
Search website
Search
Topics menu
Jobs
Immigration
Travel
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
More services
You are here:
Home
Immigration and citizenship
Immigrate
Express Entry
How Express Entry works

    Note: We’ve made some changes to the Express Entry system:
  
you can now get additional points for at least one sibling (brother or sister) living in Canada who is a citizen or permanent resident 
you can now get additional points for strong French language skills
it is now optional to create a Job Match account with Job Bank 
Find out more about these changes and how they may affect you.
  

    We use Express Entry to manage applications for permanent residence for these programs:
  
Federal Skilled Worker Program
Federal Skilled Trades Program
Canadian Experience Class

    Provinces and territories can also recruit candidates from the Express Entry pool through the Provincial Nominee Program (PNP) to meet local labour market needs.
  
Ministerial Instructions set out the rules for the Express Entry application management system.
  

    There are two steps to apply to the Express Entry system:
  
Step 1:  create your Express Entry profile

    An Express Entry profile is a form where you give us information about your:
  
skills
education
language ability
work experience and 
other details

    Creating your Express Entry profile is:
  
free
secure
online

    Once you start an Express Entry profile, you have 60 days to complete it.
  

    The information in your profile will help us see if you are eligible for an immigration program managed by Express Entry. If you meet the criteria, we will accept you into our pool of candidates.
  

      Note: It is now optional to create a Job Match account with Job Bank.
    

    If you are in the Express Entry pool, you can start your job search by creating a Job Match account with Job Bank. Once you come to Canada, you can continue using Job Bank to find a job.
  

    A Job Match account with Job Bank is an easy, online tool to help match you with employers looking for workers with your skills. To create an account:
  
go to the Job Match sign-in page
click the “Sign up now!” button
read the privacy notice and click “I agree”
follow the instructions to create an account

    You can also promote yourself to employers in other ways, such as using:
  
recruiters or
job boards 

    For a job offer to be valid in Express Entry (so you can get points for it), your employer will likely need an LMIA. There are some exceptions.
  

    Getting  into the pool  doesn't mean that we will invite  you  to apply for permanent residence.
  

    To be chosen from  the pool  you  need to have one of the highest-ranking scores when we send out invitations. If you are invited,  you can apply for permanent residence.
  

    When you apply for permanent residence, you will also need to meet eligibility and admissibility requirements under Canada's immigration law.
  
Step 2:  we invite the highest-ranking candidates in the pool to apply for permanent residence

    You will be ranked in the Express Entry pool using a points-based system called the Comprehensive Ranking System.
  

    The CRS gives you a score from the information in your profile, including your:
  
skills
education
language ability
work experience
other factors 

    You can also get points for:
  
Canadian degrees, diplomas or certificates
a valid job offer
a nomination from a province or territory 

    We send invitations to apply to the candidates with the highest scores in the pool. If we invite you to apply, you will have 90 days to submit an online application for permanent residence.
  

    We will process most complete applications that have all the supporting documents in six months or less.
  

    You can stay in the pool for up to 12 months as long as you meet the criteria for one of the federal programs. You should update your profile anytime as your case changes.
  

    If we don’t invite you to apply for permanent residence within 12 months of submitting an Express Entry profile, you can submit a new profile. If you still meet the criteria, you will re-enter the pool.
  
Additional resources:
Presentation for skilled foreign workers
PDF
Express Entry factsheet for candidates
PDF
Summer 2015 – Presentation deck from employer engagement sessions
PDF
Report a problem or mistake on this page
Date Modified: 
2017-07-17
Secondary menu
Express Entry
Become a candidate
Apply with an ITA
Check processing times
After you apply: get next steps
Prepare for arrival
Government of Canada activities and initiatives
Access Government of Canada activities and initiatives
About this site
Contact information
Enquiries
Help Centre
IRCC offices
Media contacts
News
Newsroom
Notices
Photos
Videos
Newsletter
Government
How government works
Departments and agencies
Prime Minister
Ministers
Public service and military
Treaties, laws and regulations
Libraries
Publications
Statistics and data
About Canada.ca
Transparency
Government-wide reporting
Open government
Proactive disclosure
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Social media
Mobile centre
 Top of Page  
