
Skip to main content
Skip to "About this site"
Skip to section menu
Language selection
Français
 Government of Canada
Search and menus
Search and menus
Search
Search website
Search
Topics menu
Jobs
Immigration
Travel
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
More services
You are here:
Home
Immigration and citizenship
Work
Live-in caregivers
Apply to change employers in the Live-In Caregiver Program
The Live-in Caregiver Program (LCP) is closed to new applicants. If you’d like to work as a caregiver in Canada, you must apply for a regular work permit.
Follow these steps to apply for a new LCP work permit if you:
came to Canada through the program and
want to stay in the program and
want to change employers
1. Sign a written employment contract with your new employer
You and your future employer are legally required to sign a written employment contract. The written contract will make sure there is a fair working arrangement between you and your employer.
The contract must show that you and your employer meet the requirements of the Labour Market Impact Assessment for in-home caregivers. It must include a description of:
all benefits the employer must provide to you, including:
      
transportation from where you live now to where you will work in Canada
medical insurance from the date you arrive until you are covered by provincial health insurance
workplace safety insurance for the length of your contract
all recruitment fees, including any amount a third-party recruiter or agents hired by the employer charges you
job duties
hours of work
pay
housing
vacation and sick leave benefits
details on how the employment can end (if you quit or if the employer no longer wants to hire you), including:
      
the amount of notice you or the employer must give
how they will pay the remaining wages
what will happen to any vacation time that is still owed to you
Service Canada has a contract template you can use to create the employment contract. Your contract does not have to look exactly like the template, but it must contain all the mandatory information and clauses.
Your employer will need to submit this contract as part of their Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA) application. You will also need to submit the signed contract with your work permit application. The contract you submit must match the employment contract your employer submitted with their LMIA application. You must explain any changes, like a new start date, if they do not match.
Note: If you will work in the province of Quebec, you must use the Quebec contract template.
2. Make sure your employer gets a positive Labour Market Impact Assessment
Before you can apply for a new work permit, your employer will need to get a positive Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA) from Service Canada. The LMIA must show that you have agreed to live in your employer’s home. This is so that you stay eligible to apply for permanent residence through the LCP.
If you choose to live outside of your employer’s home, you will no longer be a caregiver in the LCP. Make sure you meet the requirements for permanent residence through the LCP before you decide to live outside your employer’s home. If you don’t meet the live-in requirements, you may still qualify for permanent residence through the Caring for Children or Caring for People with High Medical Needs classes.
The positive LMIA confirms that there is a need for this job in Canada and the employer can hire a foreign worker to do it. It also shows that the wages and working conditions your employer is offering:
meet provincial or territorial employment standards 
match the wages paid to Canadians in the same occupation
If your employer gets a positive LMIA, you will be able to apply for permanent residence through the LCP, when you have met the work requirement.
3. Apply for a new work permit
To change employers in the LCP, you will need to apply to change the conditions of your existing work permit. In this case, the condition you’re changing is the employer you work for. When you submit your application, you must include a copy of:
the employment contract you and your employer signed
the positive LMIA your employer received
If your current work permit expires before you submit an application to change your employer, you must apply:
to restore your status as a temporary resident in Canada and
for a new work permit
You must do this within 90 days of the expiry date on your current work permit. You will also need to pay an extra fee to restore your status. This means you must pay both the Restoration of Temporary Resident Status fee and the regular work permit fee.
Apply online
To apply online you must have access to:
a scanner or camera to create electronic copies of your documents for uploading
a valid credit card for payment
If you provide an email address on your application, check your email account often for emails from us. Make sure that our emails aren’t blocked by your spam filters
Apply online
Apply on paper
Follow the steps below to change the employer on your work permit.
1. Get the application package
The application package includes an instruction guide and all the forms you need to fill out to change your work permit.
Read the package carefully before you complete the application. We will not refund the fees for processing your form. Make sure you are eligible to change your Live-in Caregiver Program work permit before you apply. You must also provide all the required documents. It may delay your application if information or documents are missing. Download and print the application package.
2. Get your documents ready
To change your employer, you will need to submit a:
copy of a new signed employment contract
copy of your employer’s positive Labour Market Impact Assessment, that includes a live-in option
Certificat d’acceptation du Québec, if you work in the province of Quebec.
3. Pay your application fees
Check the fee list for the most up-to-date application fees. Find out which payment methods you can use.
4. Submit your application
Mail your application and all required documents to the address in the application guide. Make sure you include:
your full name
your date of birth
a letter explaining why you are extending or changing your work permit
You must submit your application at least 30 days before your current work permit expires. Make sure you keep a copy of the entire application you submit to us.
After you apply to change your employer
We will review your application to change your employer.
If we approve your application, we’ll mail you your work permit. If we refuse your application, we’ll send you an explanation letter:
by mail, if you submitted a paper application
by email to your account, if you submitted an online application
You can’t start working for a new employer until you receive your new work permit.
 
 Top questions about live-in caregivers
I am working as a live-in caregiver but would like to move into my own home. Can I?
What are the improvements to the Caregiver Program?
As a live-in caregiver, can I return to my home country for a vacation?
Can I go on vacation while my application for permanent residence is being processed?
What rights do I have as a live-in caregiver under labour or employment laws?
As a live-in caregiver, what can I do if I feel my employer is treating me unfairly?
 See all questions about this topic 
Features
Related links
Work in Canada
Hiring a live-in caregiver
How-to video
   Save Time: Send a Complete Application 
Where to send your application
 Find out where you should send your application 
Report a problem or mistake on this page
Date Modified: 
2017-05-19
Secondary menu
Work in Canada
Live-in caregivers
Determine your eligibility
Apply
Check processing times
Extend work permit
Become a permanent resident
Government of Canada activities and initiatives
Access Government of Canada activities and initiatives
About this site
Contact information
Enquiries
Help Centre
IRCC offices
Media contacts
News
Newsroom
Notices
Photos
Videos
Newsletter
Government
How government works
Departments and agencies
Prime Minister
Ministers
Public service and military
Treaties, laws and regulations
Libraries
Publications
Statistics and data
About Canada.ca
Transparency
Government-wide reporting
Open government
Proactive disclosure
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Social media
Mobile centre
 Top of Page  
