
Skip to primary content
Skip to footer
Languages
English
Français
简体中文
Deutsch
Русский
Українська
Español
Português
Italiano
Manitoba Immigration and Economic Opportunities
Immigrate to Manitoba, Canada
Search for:
Choose Manitoba
Work in Manitoba
Job-ready English
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Work in Manitoba temporarily
Live in Manitoba
Welcoming Communities
Settlement Services in Manitoba
Explore Manitoba
Immigrate to Manitoba
Skilled Workers in Manitoba
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Skilled Workers Overseas
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Business Investors
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
Expression of Interest Assessment
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
General MPNP Process and Policies
EOI Draw Results
Strategic Initiatives
Other Immigration Options
Log into MPNP Online
Settle in Manitoba
Settlement Checklist
Before You Arrive
After You Arrive
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Regulated Professions and Trades
Find Newcomer Services Near You
Information for Employers
Recruit Newcomers
Retain Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Recruit Overseas
English Language Training at Work
Employer News and Initiatives
Information for Community
MPNP Policy and Procedures Guidelines
Research and Reports
Refugee Response
Resources on refugee resettlement
Resources for English language learners
Resources for English language instructors
News and Notices
 
Home › Immigrate to Manitoba › Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative
Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative
Introduction
The Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative (FSRI) is a special rural economic initiative under the auspices of the Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program for Business (MPNP-B). The FSRI is for individuals with proven farm business experience, sufficient available capital to invest, and who intend to establish and operate a farm operation in rural Manitoba. It is expected that successful applicants of the FSRI will establish a farm business in rural Manitoba producing primary products that is consistent with the province’s current farm industry. The type of operation and investment must correlate with Provincial statistics and be relevant to Manitoba’s farm industry. Agri-business operations not producing primary products may qualify under the Business Program criteria.
Please review carefully prior to applying to determine whether you qualify to be considered for the FSRI.  Do not complete and submit this application kit unless you are confident that you adequately meet the eligibility criteria of the FSRI and have conducted a Farm Business Research Visit. This Application Kit outlines the eligibility requirements for the FSRI. All of the necessary forms, along with instructions for completing the forms, are included. Applications received from individuals who have not completed the mandatory Farm Business Research Visit will not be interviewed and their applications will be returned unprocessed.
The Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program (MPNP) is a provincial immigration program made possible through the Canada-Manitoba Immigration Agreement. It allows the Government of Manitoba to recruit and nominate immigrants who are best suited to contribute to Manitoba’s economy. Applicants nominated by Manitoba should receive favourable and prompt consideration from Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) as long as they comply with IRCC’s statutory requirements, submit bona fide documents, and have a genuine intention to reside in Manitoba.
There are two main immigration streams under the MPNP. One is for skilled workers and the other is for business investors. This application kit contains information for applicants to the Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative (FSRI), which is a special rural economic initiative under the auspices of the Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program for Business (MPNP-B). Instructions for completing your application are included in this kit; however, forms are also available for downloading from our website at www.immigratemanitoba.com/immigrate-to-manitoba/fsri/apply/forms/
The MPNP-B will only nominate individuals who intend to reside in Manitoba with their dependent family members, make an investment into a farm business and assume an active managerial role in that business. Individuals who do not meet all program requirements are encouraged to explore other provincial and federal immigration programs.
MPNP-B officers assess applications based on eligibility requirements and selection factors. Applicants must meet the eligibility requirements. However, applicants should also be aware that meeting the minimum eligibility requirements does not guarantee nomination. Priority is given to the applicants who have the greatest potential to become economically established in Manitoba. Applicants are strongly encouraged to review the entirety of this application kit. Do not complete and submit this application kit unless you have completed your exploratory visit and are confident that your meet the FSRI eligibility criteria. Applications received by individuals who have not completed the mandatory Exploratory Visit will be returned unprocessed.
A decision to nominate does not guarantee the issuance of a Permanent Resident (PR) Visa. IRCC retains the final authority in the issuance of all visas. IRCC will review the file, conduct security and health checks, and may request an interview. Moreover, your nomination may be withdrawn by the MPNP-B at any time prior to the issuance of a PR Visa. Reasons for the withdrawal of a Nomination Certificate include, but are not limited to:
The MPNP-B is no longer satisfied that you meet the requirements under which you were nominated.
A material and relevant fact related to your application was misrepresented or withheld.
The MPNP-B is no longer satisfied that you intend to reside in Manitoba.
Approved applicants will be required to submit a good-faith deposit in the amount of CDN $75,000. This deposit is refundable to applicants, without interest, once they have met the terms and conditions of their Deposit Agreement. Prior to landing as a PR, an applicant who withdraws his/her application will be refunded his/her deposit without interest.
Download the entire Application kit in full
(875 KB PDF)
or
Individual components
 
Accessibility
Disclaimer
Copyright
Privacy
Contact us
Site Map
Scroll Top
 
