
Skip to primary content
Skip to footer
Languages
English
Français
简体中文
Deutsch
Русский
Українська
Español
Português
Italiano
Manitoba Immigration and Economic Opportunities
Immigrate to Manitoba, Canada
Search for:
Choose Manitoba
Work in Manitoba
Job-ready English
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Work in Manitoba temporarily
Live in Manitoba
Welcoming Communities
Settlement Services in Manitoba
Explore Manitoba
Immigrate to Manitoba
Skilled Workers in Manitoba
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Skilled Workers Overseas
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Business Investors
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
Expression of Interest Assessment
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
General MPNP Process and Policies
EOI Draw Results
Strategic Initiatives
Other Immigration Options
Log into MPNP Online
Settle in Manitoba
Settlement Checklist
Before You Arrive
After You Arrive
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Regulated Professions and Trades
Find Newcomer Services Near You
Information for Employers
Recruit Newcomers
Retain Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Recruit Overseas
English Language Training at Work
Employer News and Initiatives
Information for Community
MPNP Policy and Procedures Guidelines
Research and Reports
Refugee Response
Resources on refugee resettlement
Resources for English language learners
Resources for English language instructors
News and Notices
 
Manitoba
Growing Through Immigration
Employer Direct helps you
plan and address
your workforce needs
Immigrate to Manitoba
as a
Skilled Worker Overseas
Learn about the
Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative
Explore
business opportunities
in Manitoba
Manitoba, Canada welcomes newcomers
Overseas Information and Employer Engagement Sessions
In London, England on November 6-10, 2017
Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program staff will be in London, England along with Manitoba employers November 6-10, 2017 to conduct interviews with individuals who can demonstrate qualifying skills and experiences. For more information on how you may be eligible to be selected for an interview please click here.
Destination Canada 2017
In Paris, France on November 14-16, 2017
In Brussels, Belgium on November 18, 2017
Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program staff will be in Paris, France on November 14-16, 2017 and in Brussels, Belgium on November 18, 2017.  For more information on how you may be eligible to be selected for an interview please click here.
Overseas Information and Employer Engagement Sessions
In Manila, Philippines on November 20-24, 2017
Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program staff will be in Manila, Philippines along with Manitoba employers November 20-24, 2017 to conduct interviews with individuals who can demonstrate qualifying skills and experiences. For more information on how you may be eligible to be selected for an interview please click here.
Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program announcement
Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program (MPNP) applicants will now benefit from improved service standards, Education and Training Minister Ian Wishart announced today at an event highlighting renewed directions for the immigration program. For additional information click here
A new MPNP skilled worker non- refundable application fee of $500 for applicants invited to submit a complete application will take effect May 15, 2017 at 9:00 AM CST. There will be no cost to submit an Expression of Interest to the MPNP. The new fee will be non-refundable. Revenue from the processing fees will be reinvested to improve services for immigrants and refugees.
For additional information on the MPNP Skilled Worker Application fee click here.
Premier of Manitoba, Canada, Brian Pallister announces a new Labour Market Strategy for Immigration
The Premier of Manitoba Canada announces a new Labour Market Strategy for Immigration to provide direction for the renewal of the Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program (MPNP). The MPNP for Skilled Workers and Business will be renewed with a stronger emphasis on candidates with high potential to meet the Province’s projected labour market needs over the next five years, and who can establish higher investment businesses that create jobs for Manitobans. The specific details of changes to MPNP criteria and processes, as well as the new cost recovery model with application fees, will be announced in early 2017 after program changes have been approved by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada. For more information, read the complete Manitoba government News Release here, and watch this website for future updates.
New Manitoba labour market-based immigration strategy: click here for Frequently Asked Questions on this subject.
On December 13th, 2016 a public information session was held by Manitoba Education and Training to provide an overview of proposed improvements to the MPNP and to answer questions from stakeholders. A copy of the presentation supporting that information session is available here. Please watch this space for updated information concerning future information sessions and proposed improvements to the MPNP.
Manitoba, Canada is growing through immigration. Over the past 10 years, almost 130,000 people from all over the world have made a new home in the welcoming communities of our prosperous Canadian province.
Manitoba offers newcomers the opportunity to take advantage of high employment, affordability, and peaceful living in the cities and towns nestled in the natural beauty of Canada’s central province.
Build a better future in Manitoba by:
Learning more about our province, its job and business opportunities, and the services available to support your new life in Manitoba
Applying to the MPNP or choosing another route to immigrate to Manitoba
Preparing your move and, upon arrival, taking advantage of Manitoba settlement and employment services for newcomers
Hiring immigrant skilled workers through the MPNP’s services to help Manitoba employers recruit and retain internationally experienced workers both here and abroad
Welcoming immigrants to your community or workplace by using Manitoba Immigration’s resources for communities and services that support newcomer inclusion
Popular Links
Expression of Interest draw results
MPNP Frequently Asked Questions
Log into MPNP Online
 
Accessibility
Disclaimer
Copyright
Privacy
Contact us
Site Map
Scroll Top
 
