
Skip to primary content
Skip to footer
Languages
English
Français
简体中文
Deutsch
Русский
Українська
Español
Português
Italiano
Manitoba Immigration and Economic Opportunities
Immigrate to Manitoba, Canada
Search for:
Choose Manitoba
Work in Manitoba
Job-ready English
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Work in Manitoba temporarily
Live in Manitoba
Welcoming Communities
Settlement Services in Manitoba
Explore Manitoba
Immigrate to Manitoba
Skilled Workers in Manitoba
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Skilled Workers Overseas
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Business Investors
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
Expression of Interest Assessment
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
General MPNP Process and Policies
EOI Draw Results
Strategic Initiatives
Other Immigration Options
Log into MPNP Online
Settle in Manitoba
Settlement Checklist
Before You Arrive
After You Arrive
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Regulated Professions and Trades
Find Newcomer Services Near You
Information for Employers
Recruit Newcomers
Retain Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Recruit Overseas
English Language Training at Work
Employer News and Initiatives
Information for Community
MPNP Policy and Procedures Guidelines
Research and Reports
Refugee Response
Resources on refugee resettlement
Resources for English language learners
Resources for English language instructors
News and Notices
 
Home › Immigrate to Manitoba › Skilled Workers Overseas
Skilled Workers Overseas
Overview
The MPNP for Skilled Workers is locally driven and based on the needs of Manitoba employers. We select internationally trained and experienced workers who have the skills needed in the local labour market, and nominate them to receive Canadian permanent resident visas to settle and work in Manitoba.
The key to the success of the MPNP is the consistently strong and stable economy of our province. The diversity of Manitoba’s growing industries and economic sectors keeps our unemployment rate low. Good wages, safe working conditions, generous benefits and workers’ rights are some of the highlights of working in Manitoba. Plus, with Manitoba’s low cost of living, and high standard of government services such as health care and education, the province offers an affordable, high-quality lifestyle.
The MPNP for Skilled Workers Overseas nominates applicants who demonstrate an established connection to Manitoba through:
the support of family members or friends;
through previous education or work experience in the province; or
through an Invitation to Apply received directly from the MPNP as part of a Strategic Recruitment Initiative.
All applicants must submit a Settlement Plan, to explain their plan for settling in Manitoba successfully and contributing economically. Upon nomination, we provide resources to help you put your plan into action toward achieving your goals. Our secure and easy-to-use web application, MPNP Online, guides you to enter all the information and documentation that you need to apply.
Immigration through the MPNP for Skilled Workers in Manitoba is a three-step process:
STEP 1
Submit an Expression of Interest.
STEP 2
The highest-scoring qualified candidates with a connection to Manitoba are invited to submit an MPNP application.
STEP 3
Following a thorough assessment, the MPNP nominates successful candidates to make a separate application to the Government of Canada for permanent resident visas for you and your family.
Note:
Additional information is included in the General Program Processes and Policies section.
Accessibility
Disclaimer
Copyright
Privacy
Contact us
Site Map
Scroll Top
 
