
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Skip to footer
Languages
English
Français
简体中文
Deutsch
Русский
Українська
Español
Português
Italiano
Manitoba Immigration and Economic Opportunities
Immigrate to Manitoba, Canada
Search for:
Choose Manitoba
Work in Manitoba
Job-ready English
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Work in Manitoba temporarily
Live in Manitoba
Welcoming Communities
Settlement Services in Manitoba
Explore Manitoba
Immigrate to Manitoba
Skilled Workers in Manitoba
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Skilled Workers Overseas
Determine Your Eligibility
Submit an Expression of Interest
Receive a Letter of Advice to Apply
Application Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Apply to MPNP now
Business Investors
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
Expression of Interest Assessment
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative
Application Kit
Program Eligibility
Important Information & Policies
How to Apply
Frequently Asked Questions
Resource Links
General MPNP Process and Policies
EOI Draw Results
Strategic Initiatives
Other Immigration Options
Log into MPNP Online
Settle in Manitoba
Settlement Checklist
Before You Arrive
After You Arrive
Learn About Academic Credential Assessments
Regulated Professions and Trades
Find Newcomer Services Near You
Information for Employers
Recruit Newcomers
Retain Temporary Foreign Workers (TFWs)
Recruit Overseas
English Language Training at Work
Employer News and Initiatives
Information for Community
MPNP Policy and Procedures Guidelines
Research and Reports
Refugee Response
Resources on refugee resettlement
Resources for English language learners
Resources for English language instructors
News and Notices
 
Category Archives: Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs
FAQs related to the Skilled Worker Overseas stream of the Manitoba Provincial Nominee Program
 
Post navigation
← Older posts
How do I obtain a Work Permit Support Letter from the MPNP to apply for a Work Permit?
Posted on March 22, 2017  by  Manitoba Immigration 
Work Permit Support Letters
If you are a provincial nominee, the MPNP may issue you a Work Permit Support Letter (WPSL) that will allow you to apply to IRCC for a work permit. If you are already working in Manitoba with a temporary work permit and need to renew your work permit, request a WPSL at least two months before your current work permit expires.  If you have obtained a new job offer from a Manitoba employer, you may also request a WPSL to apply for a work permit.
Please make a written request for a WPSL by email to Immigratemanitoba@gov.mb.ca or in-person at the 7th floor, 213 Notre Dame Avenue in Winnipeg.  With your written request, include a copy of your job offer letter from your Manitoba employer.  The letter must be on company letterhead and include your job title, job duties, salary / wage information, start date and contact information for the signatory of the letter.
The issuance of a work permit support letter is at the sole discretion of the MPNP. The MPNP may not issue a work permit support letter if the MPNP is not satisfied with the bona fides of the employer, the employment conditions, or your ability to economically establish in Manitoba.  Your employer must be incorporated or registered by or under an act of the legislature of a province or the Parliament of Canada and operating as a business that has an established production capability, plant or place of business in Manitoba. Your employer must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the MPNP that they are an established business with an ability to offer you full-time and long-term employment in Manitoba. If you are not issued a work permit support letter and seek other work permit options, please see the website of Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Canada.
Note: Your employer must register on the Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) Employer Portal and pay the compliance fee before you are issued your work permit support letter.  They should do this at the same time you apply to the MPNP if your work permit is valid for six months or less.
Manitoba Employment Standards
Neither a recruiter nor an employer can ever charge or collect a fee (directly or indirectly) from you for your job in Manitoba.
Manitoba Employment Standards administers laws on minimum wages, hours of work, holidays and other workplace entitlements and responsibilities. The program enforces The Employment Standards Code, The Construction Industry Wages Act, The Remembrance Day Act, The Worker Recruitment and Protection Act and The Retail Businesses Holiday Closing Act. It also investigates complaints about violations of these laws.
If you have any questions or concerns about the terms of your employment, contact Employment Standards for further information.
 
Posted in Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
If I have dependants, relatives, or friends living somewhere else in Canada, will that cause my application to be automatically refused?
Posted on August 26, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
In the Declaration of Intent submitted as part of the application, you declare that you understand that Manitoba only nominates individuals who intend to reside in Manitoba along with your dependent family members. The MPNP strongly encourages you to demonstrate to the MPNP that you will meet this requirement whether you have or do not have relatives, dependants, or friends in another province. If, for example, a dependant is studying in another province, you might consider moving this dependant to an educational facility in Manitoba to demonstrate a commitment to the province. Having friends or relatives in another province does not automatically cause an application to be refused. However, the MPNP must be convinced that the applicant will not come to Canada and reside in the province where those friends or relatives currently are. It is up to you to convince the MPNP of your sincerity to relocate to Manitoba.
 
Posted in Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
If I obtain a Letter of Advice to Apply from your office, will I be guaranteed a Permanent Resident Visa to come to Canada?
Posted on August 26, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
No. The MPNP will extend letters of advice to the EOI candidates who have the potential to qualify for the MPNP. Applicants must meet all requirements of the MPNP stream they have applied for and the Federal Government’s Department of Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship to obtain a Permanent Resident Visa.
 
Posted in Business Investors FAQs, Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
 | 
Tagged MPNP-B Application Process 
Do I need to hire a lawyer, consultant, or representative to help me complete or advise me on my application?
Posted on August 26, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
The MPNP does not require you to hire a lawyer, consultant or representative to assist you with your application. In some cases (for example, if you have difficulty understanding the forms) you may wish to hire someone to help you fill out the forms or give advice. However, if you hire someone, your application will not receive special attention, or be handled differently from other applications.
 
Posted in Business Investors FAQs, Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative FAQs, Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
 | 
Tagged FSRI Application Process, MPNP-B Application Process 
Can I start to dispose of my assets after I get nominated by Manitoba and before getting my Permanent Resident Visa?
Posted on August 26, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
Do not quit your job or dispose of any assets until Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada has provided you with a Permanent Resident Visa.
 
Posted in Business Investors FAQs, Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative FAQs, Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
 | 
Tagged FSRI Application Process, MPNP-B Application Process 
Can I still apply to MPNP if I have been refused under an immigration program of another province?
Posted on August 26, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
Yes you can still apply. However, you will be required to advise the MPNP if an application has been made previously to another Provincial or Federal immigration program. You are required to advise the MPNP of the results of that application including copies of any correspondence such as a letter of refusal. The application should contain sufficient information to allow the MPNP to evaluate why the factors for refusal in the other Provincial or Federal programs do not apply to the application to Manitoba.
 
Posted in Business Investors FAQs, Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative FAQs, Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
 | 
Tagged FSRI Application Process, MPNP-B Application Process 
I conduct most of my business activities on a cash basis. What documentation do I need to supply to support my income?
Posted on August 26, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
In some situations, an applicant may be involved in a business where transactions mostly occur on a cash basis. The financial statements, business bank accounts and/or tax payment records may not support the activity level of the business. Unsupported declarations about the scope and size of the business are not sufficient. It is your responsibility to present sufficient credible documentation to demonstrate your source of income and funds.
 
Posted in Business Investors FAQs, Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
 | 
Tagged MPNP-B Application Process 
If my application is refused, can I appeal the decision?
Posted on August 26, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
All decisions are final. There is no appeal process to the MPNP after a decision has been rendered. The MPNP has implemented the Procedural Fairness Policy to allow you to address concerns prior to the MPNP making a final decision.
 
Posted in Business Investors FAQs, Farm Strategic Recruitment Initiative FAQs, Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
 | 
Tagged Application Assessment (MPNP-B and FSRI), FSRI, MPNP-B, Procedural Fairness 
What is an exploratory visit for MPNP Skilled Worker applicants?
Posted on August 17, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
An exploratory visit is a pre-arranged trip that potential MPNP Skilled Worker applicants may make to the province of Manitoba, Canada to research communities and employment opportunities to help them make an informed decision on whether they have the intention and ability to find employment and settle with their family in Manitoba as permanent residents.
After the MPNP interview included in a pre-approved exploratory visit, we may invite you to submit an MPNP Online application. Note that it is the Letter of Invitation, not the exploratory visit, that establishes a candidate’s requisite Manitoba connection.
The MPNP conducts exploratory visits at our discretion as resources allow in order to provide opportunity for qualified skilled workers, otherwise ineligible for our program, to establish the Connection to Manitoba that is required of all provincial nominee program applicants.
Exploratory visits must be approved by, then arranged through, the MPNP only by invitation following our acceptance of your request.
Note
Exploratory visits for Skilled Worker Overseas applicants are different than exploratory visits for Business applicants.
 
 
Posted in Frequently Asked Questions, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
Can Canadians or Permanent Residents support an MPNP application for their spouse?
Posted on August 17, 2016  by  Manitoba Immigration 
No. If you are married to a Canadian Citizen or permanent resident, you are not eligible to apply to the MPNP, but you may qualify under IRCCs Spousal Sponsorship category. Please visit IRCC > Spouse and Common Law Application to learn more.
 
Posted in Frequently Asked Questions, MPNP Supporter FAQs, Skilled Worker in Manitoba FAQs, Skilled Worker Overseas FAQs 
Post navigation
← Older posts
Archives
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
Meta
Log in
Accessibility
Disclaimer
Copyright
Privacy
Contact us
Site Map
Scroll Top
 
