
 
Newfoundland and Labrador Provincial Nominee Program
Home
Applicants
Employers
Life in Newfoundland and Labrador
News/Updates/Info
Disclaimer
 
Express Entry Skilled Worker
The Express Entry Skilled Worker Category is a path to permanent residence for those intending to reside permanently in Newfoundland and Labrador. Applicants must be accepted into Immigration, Refugee, and Citizenship Canada’s Express Entry pool, have a job offer in Newfoundland and Labrador, and intend to reside permanently in this province. Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) has committed to processing 80 per cent of all Express Entry candidates within six months of receiving the application.
For an in-depth explanation of the Newfoundland and Labrador Express Entry Skilled Worker category, please download the Express Entry Skilled Worker Application Guide    (534 KB).
UPDATE: Effective July 20, 2017, candidates are no longer required to demonstrate proof of settlement funds in the amounts outlined in Section 8.10 of the Express Entry Skilled Worker Guide (p.16). However, 
the Office of Immigration and Multiculturalism strongly advises all applicants to maintain some settlement funds in personal banking accounts prior to their application, as all applicants are required to prove that they can economically establish in the province. You need to submit financial documents with your application. Financial documents must pass the following requirements:
 
Savings must be maintained for at least three months prior to submitting a PNP application.
The financial account(s) must be in the principal applicant or spouse’s name(s) only; 
Account statements must show a detailed transaction history; 
Applicants should only provide documents for accounts that maintain the minimum required value, not documents for all financial assets; and 
Eligible financial documents are restricted to the following accounts: chequing accounts, savings accounts, Guaranteed Investment Certificates (GIC), Mutual Funds, Registered Retirement Savings Plans (RRSP), Tax-free Savings Account (TFSA), term deposits and time deposits.
Your Immigration Program Development Officer may request additional financial documents during the application process.
Who is eligible for the Express Entry Skilled Worker Category?
Please note that in order to be eligible for the Express Entry Skilled Worker Category, applicants must meet the following criteria:
Applicants must be accepted into Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) Express Entry pool. To confirm registration in the Express Entry pool, applicants are required to provide their Express Entry Profile Number (E plus nine digits). Applicants must also obtain a job seeker validation code (four digits) from IRCC.
Applicants must have a high-skilled job or job offer from a NL employer based on the National Occupational Code (NOC)  classification system. The skill level (high or low) can be determined by searching for the job title on this page .
Individuals who do not currently meet each of the above criteria are not eligible for the Newfoundland and Labrador Express Entry Skilled Worker category. However, they may be eligible to apply under the NLPNP Skilled Worker category or the NLPNP International Graduate category.
NEW: If you hold a Post-Graduate Work Permit (PGWP), you may be eligible for the Express Entry Skilled Worker Category, if you are accepted into Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada’s Express Entry pool. You should also obtain a valid Express Entry key code and job seeker validation code to accompany your application.
Applicants may apply to the Express Entry Skilled Worker Category if they reside outside of Canada and have been offered a job by a Newfoundland and Labrador employer. The employer must demonstrate that they have made a genuine effort to recruit qualified Canadians or permanent residents before the job offer is extended to an international worker.
In addition, the applicant must:
Be accepted into Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) Express Entry    pool and have a valid Express Entry key code;
Score a minimum of 67 points out of 100 on the PNP point assessment grid (See Annex A    (94 KB) of the Express Entry Skilled Worker Application Guide    (534 KB));
Have a full-time job offer from a Newfoundland and Labrador employer that has compensation in the form of a salary and benefits package that meets Provincial Government employment standards and prevailing wage rates, and does not contravene existing bargaining unit agreements or interfere with a labour dispute;
Have an Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) Work Permit or be entitled to apply for one; Work permits that are submitted with the PNP application 
must have duration of six months remaining prior to expiry date.
Have a Canadian post-secondary degree or diploma, or an Educational Credential Assessment (ECA)    report from an agency approved by CIC to verify that their foreign education is equal to Canadian education standards. The ECA submitted with the application must match the education level declared in the Express Entry profile and the points claimed in the points grid.
Be able to demonstrate the intention and ability to settle permanently in Newfoundland and Labrador and can demonstrate with proof that they have sufficient settlement funds or financial resources to successfully establish themselves and any dependents in Newfoundland and Labrador; and,
Be able to provide language test results   from a designated testing agency that match the language level declared in the Express Entry profile.
If work experience is in an occupation that is regulated in Newfoundland and Labrador and requires mandatory certification or licensing in the province, proof of eligibility for provincial licensure or certification to be able to work in that profession must be submitted with the PNP application.
Who is not eligible for the NL Express Entry Skilled Worker Category?
Express Entry Skilled Worker category applications are ineligible if:
The applicant has not been accepted into the Express Entry pool (determine eligibility here );
The applicant did not achieve a minimum of 67 points out of 100 points on the Point Assessment Grid    (94 KB);
The applicant is a refugee claimant in Canada claiming refugee status from the Government of Canada or the applicant is a failed refugee claimant;
The applicant fails to submit documentation as requested by PNP staff;
The applicant fails to establish that their intent to live and work in Newfoundland and Labrador is genuine;
The applicant fails to demonstrate the ability to become economically established;
The applicant or any dependent family member over the age of 18 (whether or not they are accompanying them) has a criminal record;
There are unresolved custody or child support disputes. Applicants must have these issues resolved before starting the immigration process; and,
The applicant or the applicant’s representative has intentionally misrepresented information in the application. Any activity potentially constituting fraud will be investigated and may result in criminal proceedings.
How to apply to the Express Entry Skilled Worker Category
Step 1: Complete all provincial forms listed below
 Note: all links below are PDFs and will open in a new window.
Express Entry Skilled Worker Application Guide 
Provincial Form - Application 
Provincial Form - Employment Offer
Provincial Form - Declaration of Personal Net Worth
Provincial Form - Document Checklist
Provincial Form - Use of a Representative (if applicable)
Step 2: Complete the federal forms listed below
 Note: all links below are external websites and will open in a new window.
Federal Form - Application for Permanent Residence: Guide for Provincial Nominees [IMM EP7000]
Federal Form - Generic Application Form for Canada [IMM 0008]
Federal Form - Additional Dependants/Declaration [IMM 0008DEP]
Federal Form - Schedule A – Background/Declaration [IMM 5669]
Federal Form - Additional Family Information [IMM 5406]
Federal Form - Schedule 4: Economic Classes: Provincial Nominees [IMM 0008 SCHEDULE 4]
Federal Form - Supplementary Information - Your travels [IMM 5562]
Federal Form - Separation Declaration for Minors Travelling to Canada [IMM 5604]
Statutory Declaration of Common-law Union [IMM 5409] (if applicable)
Federal Form - Document Checklist [IMM 5690]
Federal Form - Use of a Representative [IMM 5476] (if applicable)
Federal Form - Fee Payment Form for Permanent Residency [IMM 5620]
Step 3: Gather all required supporting documents
Document Checklist 
Step 4: Submit your application
After preparing a PNP application, please make note of the following:
Applicants residing outside of Canada are required to submit notarized copies of supporting documents.
Passports must be valid and not expired.
Applicants will be required to participate in an interview with PNP staff.
Applicants must submit original Federal forms to the PNP.
Applicants are advised to review his or her application forms, his or her supporting documents and the document checklist before forwarding the application package to the PNP.
If assistance is required during the completion of the PNP application, please contact PNP staff:
Telephone: 1-709-729-6607
Fax: 1-709-729-7381 
Email: pnp@gov.nl.ca 
Website: www.nlpnp.ca 
AXIS Career Services

			Certain PNP applicants may be required to enroll in the AXIS Career Services program as part of their nomination. AXIS (Acquiring eXperience; 
			Integrating Skills) provides comprehensive, career-focused services and employment programs for educated professionals, trades persons and 
			entrepreneurs. Through interactive engagement with employers and collaborative partnerships with all levels of government, industry and the 
			community, AXIS aims to facilitate successful labour market integration for newcomers.
		

			To read more about AXIS Career Services, please visit: 
			http://www.axiscareers.net/home/ 

			To enroll, please visit: 
			http://www.axiscareers.net/whyregister/ 
^ Top of Page 
Adobe Acrobat Reader software can be used for viewing PDF documents. Download for free
.
Disclaimer
Home
Contact Us
Search
