
 
Newfoundland and Labrador Provincial Nominee Program
Home
Applicants
Minimum Language Standards
How to Complete Your Federal Forms
Work Permits
Using Representatives
Immigration Consultants
Employers
Life in Newfoundland and Labrador
News/Updates/Info
Disclaimer
 
Home
Applicants
NOTICE: As of May 1, 2016, application fees for the Skilled Worker and Express Entry Skilled Worker categories will increase to  $250 CAD per application.
	
Applicants
How do I Apply?
Applying to the NLPNP is a simple process. First, potential applicants must determine which of the categories they belong to - Skilled Worker, Express Entry Skilled Worker, or International Graduate. Following this, the potential applicant will download and complete all required provincial and federal forms for their category and gather the required supporting documentation (eg. Birth Certificates, Diplomas, Passports etc). Once this is complete, the candidate will send in all forms and documentation to the Office of Immigration and Multiculturalism. Below is a brief overview of the categories.
NOTE: If you are considering hiring a representative to complete your application, please see the section on 
			Using Representatives, before proceeding. Your application will not be given special consideration if you use a representative, and OIM staff are available to assist you throughout the application process.
Express Entry Skilled Worker - This category is for skilled individuals who have been accepted into Citizenship and Immigration Canada’s Express Entry pool and who have a job offer in Newfoundland and Labrador. Disclaimer.
Skilled Worker
			- This category is for individuals who have a guaranteed offer of employment from a Newfoundland and Labrador employer, or are already working in the province on a valid Work Permit. Disclaimer.
International Graduate – This category is for recent graduates who have a Post-Graduate Work Permit and a job or job offer from a Newfoundland and Labrador employer. Disclaimer.
^ Top of Page 
Disclaimer
Home
Contact Us
Search
