 
Nova Scotia Immigration
Search
 
Explore the menu
Register for International Shows
Resources
News
Contact
Français
 
Choose Nova Scotia
History and culture
Healthy communities
Things to do
Move here
Entrepreneur
International Graduate Entrepreneur
Skilled worker
Nova Scotia Demand: Express Entry
Nova Scotia Experience: Express Entry
Before you arrive checklist
Common terms
Live here
Money and taxes
Language training
Housing
Health care
Child care
Education
Transportation
Legal services
Rights
Work here
Job market
Finding a job
Recognizing credentials
Starting a business
Study here
Where to study
Working as a student
After you graduate
Help for employers
Atlantic Immigration Pilot
Hiring a permanent resident
Hiring a temporary foreign worker
Hiring an international student
Welcoming workplaces
FAQs
 
Move Here
Once you are ready to move to beautiful Nova Scotia you will want to apply to a Nova Scotia Nominee Program (NSNP) stream.
Through the NSNP, prospective immigrants who have the skills and experience targeted by Nova Scotia may be nominated to immigrate. Receiving a Nova Scotia Provincial Nomination Certificate speeds up the overall immigration process.
Through the NSNP, prospective immigrants who have the skills and experience targeted by Nova Scotia may be nominated to immigrate. Review the different NSNP streams to determine if you qualify:
Entrepreneur
International Graduate Entrepreneur
Skilled Worker
Nova Scotia Demand: Express Entry
Nova Scotia Experience: Express Entry
The application process depends on the stream you qualify for. The guide for each stream outlines the process in detail.
The processing time for eligible applications can be three (3) months or more.
Within six (6) months of receiving your nominee certificate, apply to Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) for your permanent resident visa. You, your spouse and your dependents must meet all requirements for medical, security and criminal admissibility. In some cases you may be asked to go for an interview. CIC has the final authority to issue a permanent resident visa.
Additional information on provincial nominees.
NOTE: there are additional forms to submit with your federal application as seen on the CIC provincial nominee program document checklist.
Move hereEntrepreneur
International Graduate Entrepreneur
Skilled worker
Nova Scotia Demand: Express Entry
Nova Scotia Experience: Express Entry
Before you arrive checklist
Common terms
 
Nova Scotia Start 
Nova Scotia Start offers information and support for new immigrants.
 
Twitter
YouTube
			Official immigration website of the Government of Nova Scotia. Crown copyright © 2017 - Province of Nova Scotia.			
Privacy — View Corporate Site
