 
Home
Employers
Living here
Investors
News and Events
Active Offer
 
Search form
Search 
 
Invest Flexslider
  
  
  
  
 
Invest in the Northwest Territories 
ImmigrateNWT
 
Home » Invest in the Northwest Territories  
La version française du site Web Immigration TNO sera bientôt disponible. Merci de votre patience.
Dans l'intervalle, téléphonez au 1-855-440-5450 ou écrivez à immigration@gov.nt.ca pour obtenir de l'information. Merci.
News and Events
 Employer Engagement Session - Hay River   
 Changes to Employer Driven Stream   
 Updates to Business-Driven Stream Guidelines   
 Northwest Territories Immigration Strategy Released  
 Updates to Business Stream Program Guidelines   
 
Northwest Territories Nominee Program: Business Stream 
People who want to immigrate to the Northwest Territories to start their own business or invest in and operate an established company may apply to the business streams of the Northwest Territories Nominee Program. 
The Northwest Territories Nominee Program is delivered in partnership between the Government of the Northwest Territories and Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada.  The business stream of  the NWT Nominee Program is designed to attract business expertise to start and invest in a start-up business which  will enhance the economy of the Northwest Territories.
Prospective applicants must submit their applications to the Department of Industry, Tourism and Investment.
 
 The Benefits 
 
Diversified business helps strengthen the economy by promoting economic development. Newcomers who establish new businesses provide services and jobs for Northerners.
The Nominee Program is designed to support the immigration of foreign nationals who express interest in immigrating to Canada and who contribute to the economic development and success of the Northwest Territories. The Nominee Program helps:
strengthen the Northwest Territories’ ability to enhance the economic benefits of immigration to the territory;
create jobs in new or expanded business ventures;
nominate eligible foreign nationals for permanent residency in Canada
encourage direct investment in the economy and businesses of the Northwest Territories; and
foster a desirable lifestyle for individuals and for families in a safe and secure location.
There is more information about living and settling in the Northwest Territories available here.
 
   
 Important Business Resources 
 There are business resources available to provide foreign nationals with information about the various industry sectors in the Northwest Territories   at Invest Northwest Territories. To help understand the unique business environment of the Northwest Territories, prospective applicants  may also find How to Start a Business in the Northwest Territories  a valuable source of information.
 
   
 The Business Stream for Prospective Applicants  
 
The business-driven stream assists foreign nationals with the ability to establish or purchase, an existing business; selected primarily on the basis of its ability to create jobs for the foreign national and other Canadians.
Foreign nationals who wish to apply under the business stream need to follow the application process:
Self-Assessment and Initial Investigations
Further Investigations and Face-to-Face Interview(s)
Initiating the Application Process and Pre-Screening
Formal Application
Application Review
Approval and the Business Performance Agreement
Developing the Business
Nomination
The details for each of these steps can be found in the guidelines for the business  stream of the Nominee Program. Prospective applicants must take into consideration that decisions on applications are final and there is no appeal process.
Prospective Applicants
New entrepreneurs and/or established business owners and operators who want to apply to the nominee program under the business stream will need a business plan that clearly details the proposed business structure as well as the benefits (immediate and future) for the Northwest Territories. For example, the business structure may be:
a new business start-up;
the purchase of an existing business;
investment as an active management partner in an existing business.
Eligibility
To be eligible for the business stream of the Nominee Program, an applicant  must be able  to commit to one of the following investments:
a minimum of $300,000 CDN equity to start or buy a business within the corporate boundaries of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories;
a minimum of $150,000 CDN equity to start or buy a business outside of the corporate boundaries of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories.
The applicant must also provide proof of a personal net worth of:
At least $500,000 CDN to start or buy a business within the corporate boundaries of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories;
At least $250,000 CDN to start or buy a business outside the corporate boundaries of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories;
Demonstrate that they own at least one-third (33.3%) of the business;
Where your personal equity investment is at least $1,000,000 you may own less than one-third (33.3%) of the business pursuant to the Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations section 87(6)(b)(ii);
An additional $75,000 to be kept in a trust account that will be released upon completion of the Business Performance Agreement, based on the applicants  business proposal.
In addition to financial means, an applicant also needs to demonstrate the following knowledge and abilities:
knowledge and understanding of the Northwest Territories and its economy;
the ability to communicate well enough in English or French to conduct business and integrate into the Northwest Territories;  
the ability to make at least one (1) in-person business trip to the Northwest Territories to gain knowledge about the territory’s business environment;
the necessary experience and education to successfully implement the proposed business plan.
Forms
Forms for the business  stream of the Nominee Program can be found here:
NTNP‐01 Nominee Information Form
NTNP‐03 Business Stream Nominee Application Checklist
NTNP‐04 Personal Statement of Financial Affairs
NTNP‐05 Authorize or Cancel an Immigration Representative (if applicable)
NTNP‐06 Application Fee
NTNP-07 Entrepreneur Deposit Form 
NTNP-08 Business Stream Arrival Report Form 
For more information on this program, prospective applicants  can review the business-stream program guidelines, consult our frequently asked questions, or contact the Business Driven Program, Investment and Economic Analysis at 1 (855) 440-5450.
 
 
   
 Immigration Consultants 
 Authorize or Cancel an Immigration Representative
This form is used to name an immigration representative (such as an immigration consultant or lawyer)) to act on behalf of the prospective applicant with Nominee Program staff, or to cancel the authorization of a representative previously named. All immigration consultants must be registered with Immigration Consultants of Canada Regulatory Council found here.
Prospective applicants do not need to hire or use an immigration representative to apply to the Nominee Program. Using an immigration representative will not secure special attention or guarantee approval.
Nominee Program applicants may choose to engage the services of an immigration consultant or not, however, the Nominee Program does not engage the exclusive services of any immigration agencies or representatives in any jurisdictions.
No immigration consultant has or will be allocated a quota under this program. 
Prospective applicants are encouraged to learn about possible immigration fraud and scams. Information is available here.
 
 
 
   
 Contact information 
 To submit your application, please contact:
Business Programs Officer
Business-Driven Streams
Investment and Economic Analysis
Department of Industry, Tourism and Investment
Government of the Northwest Territories
9th Floor, Scotia Centre
5102 – 50th Avenue
P.O. Box 1320
Yellowknife, Northwest Territories
X1A 2L9
Toll Free: 1-855-440-5450
Email immigration@gov.nt.ca
 
   
 
Home  |  Site Map   |   Privacy   |   Copyright and Discalimer   |   Contact Us
The project is made possible through funding from the Government of Canada and the Government of the Northwest Territories.
