
Contact Us
Français 
Search and menus
Search and menus
Prince Edward Island
Site Search
Departments
 Search
Go
 
      Select a department    
  
 Agriculture and Fisheries 
 Communities, Land and Environment 
 Economic Development and Tourism 
 Education, Early Learning and Culture 
 Family and Human Services 
 Finance 
 Health and Wellness 
 Justice and Public Safety 
 Rural and Regional Development 
 Transportation, Infrastructure and Energy 
 Workforce and Advanced Learning 
 
 
Topics menu
Home
About PEI 
About PEI Topics
History of Prince Edward Island
Immigrate
Move to PEI
Learn about PEI
The Mighty Island
About PEI Services
Advisories
Events
Maps of PEI
News
Search the Archives Online
See more About PEI topics
Residents 
Resident Topics
Education
Environment and Land
Health
Jobs
Roads and Transportation
Tax Administration and Property Records
Resident Services
Emergency Department Wait Times
Forms
Motor Vehicle Registration Renewal
Publications
Register for a Family Doctor
 
Resident Audiences
Youth
New Residents
Family
Seniors
See more Residents topics
Business 
Business Topics
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Industry
Business Start-up and Entrepreneurship
HR: Hiring, Managing and Training
Loans and Incentives
Productivity and Innovation
Taxes, Regulations, Permits and Licensing
Trade and Export
Business Services
Apply for Business Development Assistance
Apply for License to Operate a Food Premises
Search Corporate/Business Names
View Tender Opportunities
 
Business Segments
Exporting from PEI
Investing in PEI
PEI Economy
Supporting Business
See more Business topics
Government 
Government Topics
Agencies, Boards and Commissions
Consultations
Departments
Executive Council Office
Health PEI
Legislative Assembly
Municipal Governments
Premier of Prince Edward Island
Publications
Government Services
Apply to Engage PEI
Employee Directory
Legislation
News
Orders in Council
Public Disclosures
Request for Information (FOIPP)
Royal Gazette
See more Government topics
Online Services
 
 
Government Office of Immigration 
100% Ownership Stream
Share this page:Email this page to a friend 
Feedback 
If you are interested in immigrating to Prince Edward Island and would like to own your own business, you may be eligible for a nomination for permanent residency through the 100% Ownership Stream of the Prince Edward Island Provincial Nominee Program (PEI PNP).  This stream is for foreign nationals with extensive management or business-ownership experience who would like to own and operate their own business in PEI.
Am I eligible to apply?
To be eligible for nomination through the 100% Ownership stream you must:
Score a minimum of 50 points on the self-assessment.
Have a minimum verifiable personal net worth of $600,000 which has been accumulated through legal and legitimate sources in your own right.
Have a minimum education of high school equivalent.
Be within 21-59 years of age at the time of application.
Have transferable management skills and past employment or business-ownership experience.
Meet minimum language requirements equivalent to a band score of 4.0 on an IELTS test.
Intend to live and work in PEI and provide day-to-day active and ongoing management of your company from PEI.
Attend an interview with staff from the Office of Immigration.
Sign an escrow agreement with the Province and submit a $200,000 deposit, which will be refunded upon you meeting the terms and conditions of the escrow agreement.
How do I apply?
If you meet the criteria listed above, you must first read the Business Application Guide [661kb] and then complete the application forms.
The complete application package, along with all supporting documentation and the $10,000 application fee, can be submitted to the Office of Immigration in two ways:
In person at 94 Euston Street (2nd floor), Charlottetown, PEI; or
	Courier or mail package to
Office of Immigration94 Euston Street, 2nd FloorPO Box 1176Charlottetown, PECanada   C1A 7M8
Do I have to pay a fee?
Yes, the application fee is $10,000.  If your file is not accepted, the entire fee will be refunded.  If your file is declined or withdrawn prior to you being interviewed by our office, $7,500 will be refunded.  If your file is declined or withdrawn after you have interviewed with our office, the entire fee is non-refundable.  The acceptable forms of payment are a bank draft, a certified cheque, or a money order made payable to Island Investment Development, Inc.
What forms do I need to fill out?
You must complete all applicable provincial forms listed below:
B-2: Self-Assessment
B-3: Application Form [517 Kb]
B-5: Consent to Validate Information
B-6: Information Release
You must also complete all applicable federal forms from the Federal Application Package for Provincial Nominees
Do I need to use an immigration consultant or a lawyer?
No, if you are able to complete your application forms on your own and represent yourself to our office, you do not need to use an immigration consultant or a lawyer.  If you are not using a representative, all communications with and submissions to the office of Immigration must come directly from you and the interview must be conducted without the help of an interpreter.
If you do require assistance in preparing your application, you must use an approved Island Agent. 
What happens after I am nominated?
After you receive a nomination, you are responsible for submitting your Application for Permanent Residency to Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) along with your nomination certificate.  IRCC will then assess your application for admissibility factors.  You can check processing times at IRCC on their website.
Who can I contact to ask questions?
Forward questions related to the 100% Ownership Stream to immigratepei@gov.pe.ca or call (902) 620-3628.
 
Published date: September 1, 2016 
 
      Resources    
Business Impact Category Application Guide [661 Kb]Business Impact Category Provincial FormsFederal Application Package for Provincial NomineesUsing a RepresentativeBusiness Impact Category Escrow Agreement Policies 
      Additional Links    
 Work Permit Stream  
 Partial Ownership Stream  
 Selling Your Business to...  
 Finding an Investor / Bus...  
 New Business Checklist  
 Choosing your business st...  
 
      General Inquiries    
Office of Immigration
	94 Euston Street, 2nd Floor
	PO Box 1176
	Charlottetown, PE   C1A 7M8
	Phone: (902) 620-3628 
	Fax: (902) 368-5886
immigratepei@gov.pe.ca  
About this site
150 Prince Edward Island Surprises for Canada 150
Contact UsAccess PEI LocationsEmployee Directory
 
News
Calendar of Events
About this site
Facebook
Subscribe
Twitter
Flickr
Youtube
Linkedin
© 2017 Government of Prince Edward Island
Privacy
Disclaimer 
Accessibility
