
Contact Us
Français 
Search and menus
Search and menus
Prince Edward Island
Site Search
Departments
 Search
Go
 
      Select a department    
  
 Agriculture and Fisheries 
 Communities, Land and Environment 
 Economic Development and Tourism 
 Education, Early Learning and Culture 
 Family and Human Services 
 Finance 
 Health and Wellness 
 Justice and Public Safety 
 Rural and Regional Development 
 Transportation, Infrastructure and Energy 
 Workforce and Advanced Learning 
 
 
Topics menu
Home
About PEI 
About PEI Topics
History of Prince Edward Island
Immigrate
Move to PEI
Learn about PEI
The Mighty Island
About PEI Services
Advisories
Events
Maps of PEI
News
Search the Archives Online
See more About PEI topics
Residents 
Resident Topics
Education
Environment and Land
Health
Jobs
Roads and Transportation
Tax Administration and Property Records
Resident Services
Emergency Department Wait Times
Forms
Motor Vehicle Registration Renewal
Publications
Register for a Family Doctor
 
Resident Audiences
Youth
New Residents
Family
Seniors
See more Residents topics
Business 
Business Topics
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Industry
Business Start-up and Entrepreneurship
HR: Hiring, Managing and Training
Loans and Incentives
Productivity and Innovation
Taxes, Regulations, Permits and Licensing
Trade and Export
Business Services
Apply for Business Development Assistance
Apply for License to Operate a Food Premises
Search Corporate/Business Names
View Tender Opportunities
 
Business Segments
Exporting from PEI
Investing in PEI
PEI Economy
Supporting Business
See more Business topics
Government 
Government Topics
Agencies, Boards and Commissions
Consultations
Departments
Executive Council Office
Health PEI
Legislative Assembly
Municipal Governments
Premier of Prince Edward Island
Publications
Government Services
Apply to Engage PEI
Employee Directory
Legislation
News
Orders in Council
Public Disclosures
Request for Information (FOIPP)
Royal Gazette
See more Government topics
Online Services
 
 
Government Office of Immigration 
Skilled Workers on PEI
Share this page:Email this page to a friend 
Feedback 
You can apply for a nomination for permanent residency through the Skilled Worker stream of the Prince Edward Island Provincial Nominee Program (PEI PNP), if you are currently employed by an Island employer.  The Skilled Worker stream is employer-driven, allowing Island employers to fill high-skilled positions that they are unable to fill through the local job market.
Am I eligible?
To be eligible to apply for the PEI Skilled Worker stream you must:
Score at least 50 points on the Labour Impact Self-Assessment.
Have a full-time long-term (i.e. permanent or minimum of 2 years) job offer from a PEI employer in NOC skill level O, A, or B.
Have a valid work permit to be working in Canada.
Be able to attend an interview at the Office of Immigration, if required.
Have successfully completed a post secondary degree or diploma (minimum 2 year program).
Be between the ages of 21 and 59.
Have at least two years of full-time work experience in the past 5 years.
Possess sufficient English and/or French language ability to perform the job offered.
Have sufficient financial resources to pay all immigration costs (including travel expenses) for you and your family to be able to establish in PEI.
Demonstrate a genuine intention to settle in PEI.
How do I apply?
If you meet all of the eligibility criteria listed above, you must read the Labour Application Guide [691kb], then complete the application forms.  Your employer must also complete the employer forms.
The complete application package, along with the $300 application fee, can be submitted to the Office of Immigration in two ways:
In person at 94 Euston Street (2nd floor), Charlottetown, PEI; or
	Courier or mail package to
Office of Immigration94 Euston Street, 2nd FloorPO Box 1176Charlottetown, PECanada  C1A 7M8
Do I have to pay a fee?
Yes, a non-refundable application fee of $300 must be submitted with your application.  The acceptable forms of payment are a bank draft, a certified cheque, or a money order made payable to Island Investment Development, Inc. 
What forms do I need to fill out?
You must complete all applicable provincial forms listed below:
PEPNP-L01: Self-Assessment
PEPNP-L02: Application Form
PEPNP-L03: Information Disclosure
PEPNP-L04: Declaration
In addition, your employer must complete the following forms:
PEPNP-L05: Job Offer 
PEPNP-L06: Employer Language Declaration (if applicable) 
You must also complete all applicable federal forms from the Federal Application Package for Provincial Nominees
Do I have to use an immigration consultant or a lawyer?
No, you are not required to hire an immigration consultant for any immigration program to Canada.
If you choose to use an immigration consultant or a lawyer, they should be registered with the Immigration Consultants of Canada Regulatory Council, or be a lawyer in good standing with a provincial law society.  The agent must be registered with the Office of Immigration prior to the submission of an application through this stream.
What happens after I am nominated?
After you receive a nomination you are responsible for submitting your Application for Permanent Residency to Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) along with your nomination certificate.  IRCC will then assess your application for admissibility factors.  You can check processing times at IRCC on their website.
If there are changes in your circumstances, such as family status, employment, contact information, etc., you must notify the Office of Immigration immediately. If any changes occur after nomination, you must notify the Office of Immigration and IRCC.
Who can I contact to ask questions?
Forward questions related to the Skilled Worker stream to immigratepei@gov.pe.ca or call (902) 620-3628.
 
Published date: August 31, 2016 
 
      Resources    
PEI PNP Labour Impact Category Application Guide [691Kb]PEPNP-L01: Self-AssessmentPEPNP-L02: Labour ApplicationPEPNP-L03: Information DisclosurePEPNP-L04: DeclarationPEPNP-L05: Job OfferPEPNP-L06: Employer Language DeclarationFederal Application Package for Provincial NomineesNational Occupational Classification (NOC) Matrix 2016Find out if your representative is authorized 
      Additional Links    
 PEI Express Entry  
 Provincial Nominee Progra...  
 Skilled Workers Outside C...  
 Critical Workers  
 International Graduates  
 Health Job Opportunities  
 
      General Inquiries    
Office of Immigration
	94 Euston Street, 2nd Floor
	PO Box 1176
	Charlottetown, PE   C1A 7M8
	Phone: (902) 620-3628 
	Fax: (902) 368-5886
immigratepei@gov.pe.ca  
About this site
150 Prince Edward Island Surprises for Canada 150
Contact UsAccess PEI LocationsEmployee Directory
 
News
Calendar of Events
About this site
Facebook
Subscribe
Twitter
Flickr
Youtube
Linkedin
© 2017 Government of Prince Edward Island
Privacy
Disclaimer 
Accessibility
