
Contact Us
Français 
Search and menus
Search and menus
Prince Edward Island
Site Search
Departments
 Search
Go
 
      Select a department    
  
 Agriculture and Fisheries 
 Communities, Land and Environment 
 Economic Development and Tourism 
 Education, Early Learning and Culture 
 Family and Human Services 
 Finance 
 Health and Wellness 
 Justice and Public Safety 
 Rural and Regional Development 
 Transportation, Infrastructure and Energy 
 Workforce and Advanced Learning 
 
 
Topics menu
Home
About PEI 
About PEI Topics
History of Prince Edward Island
Immigrate
Move to PEI
Learn about PEI
The Mighty Island
About PEI Services
Advisories
Events
Maps of PEI
News
Search the Archives Online
See more About PEI topics
Residents 
Resident Topics
Education
Environment and Land
Health
Jobs
Roads and Transportation
Tax Administration and Property Records
Resident Services
Emergency Department Wait Times
Forms
Motor Vehicle Registration Renewal
Publications
Register for a Family Doctor
 
Resident Audiences
Youth
New Residents
Family
Seniors
See more Residents topics
Business 
Business Topics
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Industry
Business Start-up and Entrepreneurship
HR: Hiring, Managing and Training
Loans and Incentives
Productivity and Innovation
Taxes, Regulations, Permits and Licensing
Trade and Export
Business Services
Apply for Business Development Assistance
Apply for License to Operate a Food Premises
Search Corporate/Business Names
View Tender Opportunities
 
Business Segments
Exporting from PEI
Investing in PEI
PEI Economy
Supporting Business
See more Business topics
Government 
Government Topics
Agencies, Boards and Commissions
Consultations
Departments
Executive Council Office
Health PEI
Legislative Assembly
Municipal Governments
Premier of Prince Edward Island
Publications
Government Services
Apply to Engage PEI
Employee Directory
Legislation
News
Orders in Council
Public Disclosures
Request for Information (FOIPP)
Royal Gazette
See more Government topics
Online Services
 
 
Government Office of Immigration 
Atlantic Immigration Pilot for Employers - Designation
Share this page:Email this page to a friend 
Feedback 
 
Atlantic Immigration Pilot for Employers 
The Atlantic Immigration Pilot Program is an employer-driven federal immigration pilot program designed to help you fill permanent labour shortages and skill gaps in your business by supporting foreign nationals for permanent residency.  There are three different streams which aim to address different needs.  The Atlantic High Skilled Program allows you to attract highly skilled individuals, the Atlantic Intermediate Skilled Program allows you to attract semi-skilled individuals, and the Atlantic International Graduate Program allows you to attract recent graduates from Atlantic Canada post-secondary institutions.
Am I eligible?
To be eligible to participate in the Pilot you must be a designated employer.  To become a designated employer you must:
Want to hire full-time, non-seasonal, international candidates
Be in good standing with provincial and federal standards and legislation as per the program guidelines
Demonstrate your preparedness to receive and meet the settlement needs of international candidate(s) and accompanying family members, and agree to do so
Understand and agree to the reporting requirements for the program
What is the process?
The Pilot is a two-step process.  The first step is to become designated.  You will only need to be designated once, but you will be contacted annually by our office to update your file.  The second step is to identify international candidates that you would like to support through this program and submitting an endorsement application to our office. 
How do I apply?
If you meet the criteria listed above, you must first read the application guide then complete the employer designation form.
The complete form can be submitted to the Office of Immigration in three ways:
In person at 94 Euston Street (2nd floor), Charlottetown, PEI;
Electronically to immigrationpilot@gov.pe.ca; or
Courier or mail package to
Office of Immigration94 Euston Street, 2nd FloorPO Box 1176Charlottetown, PECanada  C1A 7M8
Do I have to pay a fee?
There are no fees payable to the Province for the designation or endorsement process.
What forms do I need to fill out?
To become designated as an employer who is eligible to use the Pilot Program, you must complete an employer designation form.  To apply to have a candidate endorsed, you must already be a designated employer and then submit an endorsement form.
Who can I contact with questions?
Forward questions related to the Pilot Program to immigrationpilot@gov.pe.ca or call (902) 620-3628.
 
Published date: January 27, 2017 
 
      Resources    
Atlantic Immigration Pilot Guidelines for Designation ApplicationsAtlantic Immigration Pilot Employer Designation Application FormFederal Immigration Fee Schedule 
      Additional Links    
 Provincial Nominee Progra...  
 Critical Workers  
 Atlantic Immigration Pilo...  
 Diversity Employment Prog...  
 Language Training  
 
      General Inquiries    
Office of Immigration
	94 Euston Street, 2nd Floor
	PO Box 1176
	Charlottetown, PE   C1A 7M8
	Phone: (902) 620-3628 
	Fax: (902) 368-5886
immigratepei@gov.pe.ca  
About this site
150 Prince Edward Island Surprises for Canada 150
Contact UsAccess PEI LocationsEmployee Directory
 
News
Calendar of Events
About this site
Facebook
Subscribe
Twitter
Flickr
Youtube
Linkedin
© 2017 Government of Prince Edward Island
Privacy
Disclaimer 
Accessibility
