
Contact Us
Français 
Search and menus
Search and menus
Prince Edward Island
Site Search
Departments
 Search
Go
 
      Select a department    
  
 Agriculture and Fisheries 
 Communities, Land and Environment 
 Economic Development and Tourism 
 Education, Early Learning and Culture 
 Family and Human Services 
 Finance 
 Health and Wellness 
 Justice and Public Safety 
 Rural and Regional Development 
 Transportation, Infrastructure and Energy 
 Workforce and Advanced Learning 
 
 
Topics menu
Home
About PEI 
About PEI Topics
History of Prince Edward Island
Immigrate
Move to PEI
Learn about PEI
The Mighty Island
About PEI Services
Advisories
Events
Maps of PEI
News
Search the Archives Online
See more About PEI topics
Residents 
Resident Topics
Education
Environment and Land
Health
Jobs
Roads and Transportation
Tax Administration and Property Records
Resident Services
Emergency Department Wait Times
Forms
Motor Vehicle Registration Renewal
Publications
Register for a Family Doctor
 
Resident Audiences
Youth
New Residents
Family
Seniors
See more Residents topics
Business 
Business Topics
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Industry
Business Start-up and Entrepreneurship
HR: Hiring, Managing and Training
Loans and Incentives
Productivity and Innovation
Taxes, Regulations, Permits and Licensing
Trade and Export
Business Services
Apply for Business Development Assistance
Apply for License to Operate a Food Premises
Search Corporate/Business Names
View Tender Opportunities
 
Business Segments
Exporting from PEI
Investing in PEI
PEI Economy
Supporting Business
See more Business topics
Government 
Government Topics
Agencies, Boards and Commissions
Consultations
Departments
Executive Council Office
Health PEI
Legislative Assembly
Municipal Governments
Premier of Prince Edward Island
Publications
Government Services
Apply to Engage PEI
Employee Directory
Legislation
News
Orders in Council
Public Disclosures
Request for Information (FOIPP)
Royal Gazette
See more Government topics
Online Services
 
 
Government Office of Immigration 
PEI Express Entry
Share this page:Email this page to a friend 
Feedback 
You can apply for a PEI Express Entry nomination for permanent residency through the Prince Edward Island Provincial Nominee Program (PEI PNP).  Your nomination through PEI PNP will increase your chance of being issued an Invitation to Apply from the Federal Government.
Am I eligible to apply?
To be eligible for nomination through PEI Express Entry, you must:
meet the requirements of at least one of the Federal Economic Immigration programs:
		Federal Skilled Worker Program;
Federal Skilled Trades Program; or
Canadian Experience Class
create a Federal Express Entry Profile and be placed in the pool of candidates.  You can create a profile at any time through IRCC.
What will increase my chances of being nominated?
The following factors will increase your chances of nomination by PEI:
You are currently living and working in PEI.
		You must be legally permitted to work.
You have strong family connections to PEI.
		If claiming a family connection to PEI, the family must be a permanent resident or Canadian citizen and resident of PEI for at least 1 year and be a parent, sibling, aunt or uncle.
You have work experience in PEI.
		Must have at least 1 year of full-time work experience in past 10 years.
You have previously studied in PEI.
		Must have completed 2 years of studying in past 10 years.
You own a residential property in PEI.
You own a business in PEI.
You have experience working in an area that has a skill shortage in PEI.
You have a job offer from a PEI employer in a high-skilled position.
		The employer must show efforts they attempted to fill the position locally.
How do I apply?
You must be selected to apply. Submit a completed Expression of Interest form to expressentry@gov.pe.ca.  There is no charge to submit this form.
If you are selected to apply for PEI Express Entry, a confirmation email explaining the application process will be sent to you within three months of your submission.  If you are not selected, you will not receive a response.
Please note: There will be no response to progress inquiries related to an Expression of Interest filed.
Who is not eligible to apply?
If you are currently working in PEI on a post-graduate open work permit, you must satisfy the following conditions prior to applying:
Have at least 4 months of full-time experience working for the PEI employer, and
Have at least 4 months remaining before the expiration of your work permit at the time of submitting an application to the Province.
If you are currently in Canada, you must be here legally.  This means that if you are in Canada on a study permit and you are not studying, you are not eligible to apply.
Do I have to pay a fee?
There is no fee to submit an Expression of Interest form.  If you are selected for nomination by PEI, the application fee is $300.  This fee is non-refundable and must be paid prior to receiving your nomination certificate from the Province.
Do I have to use an Immigration Consultant or a Lawyer?
No, you are not required to hire an Immigration Consultant for any immigration program in Canada.
If you choose to use an Immigration Consultant or a Lawyer, they should be registered with the Immigration Consultants of Canada Regulatory Council, or be a Lawyer in good standing with a Provincial Law Society.
	 
How can I check the status of my PEI Express Entry application?
Enquiries made within 60 calendar days of submission of your application to the Office of Immigration will not be answered.  After 60 days, submit enquiries to expressentry@gov.pe.ca.  Be sure to include your file number in the subject line of the email.  If you do not have a file number, you do not have an application in process.
	 
My Work Permit is expiring soon, what can I do?
You are responsible for ensuring you maintain legal status in Canada.  You cannot rely on PEI Express Entry to help extend a work permit that is about to expire.  If you are currently working in PEI, you may be eligible for a nomination through one of our other streams, in which case we could write an employer-specific letter of support for a work permit extension to be issued with the nomination.
If you have reached the stage of applying for permanent residency through Express Entry and your work permit is about to expire, you can apply for a Bridging Open Work Permit.
	 
What happens after I am nominated?
If there are changes in your circumstances, such as family status, employment, contact information, etc., you must notify the Office of Immigration immediately. If any changes occur after nomination, you must notify the Office of Immigration and IRCC.
Who can I contact to ask questions?
Forward questions related to the Express Entry stream to expressentry@gov.pe.ca.  Note: questions will not be answered on the phone or in person, unless an appointment has been made through email.
 
Published date: August 10, 2016 
 
      Resources    
PEI Express Entry Expression of Interest FormCreate Your Federal Express Entry ProfileFind out if your representative is authorizedExtend Your Work Permit - IRCC 
      Additional Links    
 Skilled Workers Outside C...  
 Critical Workers  
 Skilled Workers on PEI  
 International Graduates  
 
      General Inquiries    
Office of Immigration
	94 Euston Street, 2nd Floor
	PO Box 1176
	Charlottetown, PE   C1A 7M8
	Phone: (902) 620-3628 
	Fax: (902) 368-5886
immigratepei@gov.pe.ca  
About this site
150 Prince Edward Island Surprises for Canada 150
Contact UsAccess PEI LocationsEmployee Directory
 
News
Calendar of Events
About this site
Facebook
Subscribe
Twitter
Flickr
Youtube
Linkedin
© 2017 Government of Prince Edward Island
Privacy
Disclaimer 
Accessibility
